The Old Grey Lady’s house had many amenities for Mousekind.


Nesturna Turnoctus Theories on Interactions Betwixt Fivefold Weavelings.


It’s not Epic, it’s mini-Epic.
MiniEpic




SemiColonial; ← 


The shortest-ever horse and cart chase


A wagon wheel hanging from a tree. The birds use it as a perch. WHhen strung a different way, the squirrels use it as a whirlygig ride. WHen strung up a third way, they hung pots and spoons and drying linens on it, and use potential energy to make them whip-dry. He had about eleven separate uses for wheel, rope, and short ladder combination. So he counted each of them as lighter, using a formula had had been working on to perfection for some time, in his mind. It was difficult to keep track of what he was thinking for himself, at times.


Barnaby was a rarity, because he was a Rat, who had been raised as a Mouse, both by Mice and by Men. This made him uniquely bred, which became most apparent to his foster family on his third birthday. As was the custom in the Mouse Quarters of Rooster Hollows, his town of birth,  third birthdays are a Big Thing. 


The Tavern becomes connected to the Old House, 


but Humans could not commonly through it, being mostly too big. The Mice, on the other hand,  used it all the time, as did a cat or two, here and there. Crows had no use for the thing, and rare was the other small creature who was willing to draw close to it.


One lithe fellow, in fact, later almost ruined the portal entirely, in his efforts to squeeze himself through it - without clothes (naturally) and slathered in vegetable oils - only to get his beard snagged on a thick splinter of wood from the outer rim, which prevented him getting much farther through than his waist, or thereabouts. Having concluded beforehand that he would pose the most compact head-first silhouette to the wheel with his arms stretched down along his sides, and slightly behind, he almost immediately became quite firmly trapped, once his beard betrayed him.


His was found by mid-afternoon, when the 


The splinter of wood was was placed there by ORTECH.employee.Dave.0100, otherwise known as Just Dave, by his five friends, Node the First, Node the Second, ThirdNode, MiddleNode, Node.5 and Dale. Just Dave also had an iDog, which technically counted as his child, and his parental units, which he heard from only sporadically.]


..
The Mad Scribble, Chapter 7










“Some time in the making”, not “many years”


The uncrafty Stitch : A short guide on weathering your first spell, and other Things.










..
“I don’t see skin color”


Bardlii did not to see skin colour, though. He couldn’t say this to most people, of course, as they often mistook it for a kind of over-compensation or bragging (strangely) on his part, which tended to unnerve their sensibilities. In his particular case, however, it was actually, scientifically true; his mind’s discernment of most colours* had been cruelly snatched from him during his second year at Wixarthur, by a jealous, curse-hurling colleague during an impolite dispute over social protocol. This act led to the classmate’s tribunal before the Grand Coven, and eventual expulsion from the academy. That man was now known far and wide as Undrumkin the Fowl, a title first coined by Bardlii’s college roommate Mortimurm Nodegate, whose loyalty and sense of humour mostly made up for his lack of attention and scholastic prowess. Mostly. 


Weavelings’ stories, however, do not move in straight, parallel lines, They are woven. We are all woven.”


“We are all Weavelings, you mean.”


“Yes, Maeve, I believe that to be true. I believe we are all Weavelings. Every living thing.”






Maeve and Gran would both attest sometime later that neither could remember the first few hours in which they first met, because they had (apparently) one of those meeting-someone-for-the-first-time-and-feeling-like-you’ve-known-them-forever moments. Except they had known each other for so long, they were with old hearts and minds by the time they re-met, and inclined to forget great stretches of time when around one another, out of habit and comfort.


..
“I have found, over the years, that the best Wizards and Witches all tend to talk outwardly in expressions of belief and experience, rather than certainties and truth.”


“You’re using other people’s safety as your playground.”




 
 
The Tavern becomes connected to the Old House.






Get a Wix site




Bex
Lisa
Elmur
Oakely
Bardlii
Maeve
Ani
Onefoot
Brom


Niall / Quidbury / 


Niall’s “see you soon” is prophetic! The next scene should be he and Maeve’s weavelings meeting.


There is a SevenFold in the township. Only three of her Weavelings are in the books. She has many inexplicable things happen to her constantly.