Gantt and Claudreich tie the knot:
Raise the flag


Maeve rescues Becka from bullies
“LEAVE. LEAVE NOW.”
Liz (“Lizbee”) crosses the cafeteria floor, stands with Liz
Becka stands on her other side, reluctantly. This, incidentally, is a casting of the Small Witch Palm. It drives the bullies back.


Maeve has to self-collect after that moment.
Becka knows that Maeve is a leader, and is brave, and is hurt. 
“Opposed views are necessary. They are in fact, critical. Our job is to accept the importance of views that challenge ours. That is all.”


Brom has to visit his “mother” first.


K has a brother, they have a secret each from her mother - he is gay and she is not employed


Beatrice insists on meals together, and requires the Ritual of Thankfuls.
Beatrice believes all children are capable of everything, absolutely.
Last lines of chapter 6: 
“It has a tire swing” 
Maeve didn’t know if she had an opinion about that.
“Ok.”
Ani checked her sideview. She did not like merging, all that much. “That’s good, right?”
Maeve shrugged at her mother’s back. The trees were syncopating now. 
Time will tell, mother.


--


“What story brought you here?”
We were all somebody’s baby girl, or baby boy
“Our privileges are highly randomized, I’m afraid”
 Cat






Maeve Morgan: short, synesthete, brave, curious, leader, dreamer, witchling, guarded
Becka Florins-Stein: tall, studious, empathic, shy, awkward, neglected, follower
Liz Bright: Popular, athletic, overachiever, drama student , leader, tri-racial (unspecified)
Kobee Jonassen: Little, dreamer, one year behind Liz and Bex, in love with Liz. He could have skipped a grade, but didn’t, regrets it now. 
Chudd Saunders: Beefy, 
Norah : Black Cat, companion of Witches
Bill : Black and white longhair who jumped one day through the tire swing. He was hunting a crow (bad idea, Bill). Finds his human-given name useful. It gives him an ego, which is useful. It makes it about him. This is why I chose to hunt the crow - prestige.


Bex finds Liz fascinating because she is matematically tri-racial : 33.3, 33.2, 33.4. The races are never specified.


Stage play (for kids?)
The female characters are never described physically, except for up to one signature feature; it can’t speak to race or cultural background. These women have names that might be open to interpretation, and are often hyphenated.




Beatrice has Ogden, an old dog.
Beatrice is pretending to be Ani’s grandma, but she is actually her great , great godmother. She is a powerful and elder witch. She does not reveal this easily.


Ani does not know Beatrice is not her grandmother. She gradually discovers her true identity over the course of the story.


Ani has told Maeve that Beatrice is her grandmother, because she doesn’t want Maeve to know about her own mother, Ashlyn. Ashlyn became a dark witch.


Maeve eventually “finds out” that Beatrice is Ani’s “Godmother”. 


Bea lives with her sister, and Buzz? Or is Buzz Maeve’s uncle or father? Who is Buzz?


Ashlyn lives in town, she is maybe a real estate developer, and lives on her own. She was extremely hurt by Oakely in another probability (it is why Witches do not like to travel to different possibilities), and it transformed her.


The Witches all recognize Oakely   
 


Ogden notices immediately that Buzz was a dog in a previous life




The tire swing was an unintentional nexus, swaying in a breeze it made for itself.
The mirror in the upstairs bathroom, that was another, that few ever found out about.
“The COG is not a safe nexus for children!!”


Ani and Maeve show up to the Old House. But Beatrice has moved to the Second Old House The House on the Left. Ani and Maeve go through the right front door,  and settle into the house on the right.


Oakely is trying to fix the Cog, which is out back in the shed built on the left. Maeve explores the shed built on the right. They meet.


“Mum, I met a weird man out back, I think he’s a gnome or something. Also, I think I need to go lie down. I’m going to go lie down.”


The Fifth Witch Switch
The Double Coven Gambit


Oakely uses a loophole in the Witch-Wizard Treaty of ‘412 to deputy-authorize the formation of a second coven on the right side of the house. 


The Great Bottle Return Double-Dipping Caper - Liz gets stuck in a dumpster, almost gets buried in garbage. Big hooplah at school.


Maeve acts nonchalant about the magic, but in reality, her mind is being blown.


“Your name is... Chud?”
“Yeah. Well, no. It’s my nickname”
“Well, what’s your actual, real name?”
A pause.
“Edwin.”
Maeve saw his problem.
“Ok. Can I call you Edwin?”
Another pause.
“I’d rather you didn’t”, Chud looked at his carrot sticks and at the carrot sticks of his neighbours.
“Ok, how about … Win...nie. Winnie?”, Maeve’s eyebrows all helpfullness 
Chud’s eyebrows dived into each other violently.
“OK, not WInnie. SOrry.” Maeve caught sight of Chud’s team jacket’s emblem, which was some sort of dragon-hawk. Or something. 
“WInner, then.”
A pause, Chud looked up, a slightly pained look about him.
“I’m not calling you CHUD. Sorry.” Maeve was pretty certain she wasn’t going to do that.
The boy looked back at his peas, silent and maybe a bit pondering.
“Winner it is, then”.




The Earth knows what she’s doing


She lives in a different world than I.


Maeve’s dad is either A or B. That makes her like shrodinger’s cat. It’s why she and Bill get along


The reunited half-sisters … Ani and …?


“Learning through it”


Who is adopted?


The cousins befriend each other, drawing the family back together. Does Oak have something to do with that? Uh oh….


The axes of inter-connection :


Adoption
Friendship
Relationship
Triste
Mentor
Student
Neighbour
Crushing
Love
Animal / Human
Author / character


Honour each other’s stories


Chudd “Winner” becomes the Grognard


"Running from Glaciers : Origins of racial trauma”










 








Oakely briefly encounters an Elder Wizard. He doesn’t get much of a chance to interact with him, and knows he won’t, for many years.




*** COMPRSS