Some Things:

===
A Printed Routine Example:

I don't like .rtf. (no offense! You are a great, little language).
I want to use a global, open-source markup language.
What are the best examples of those available today?
 A:	None?
		a) Create one.
			%:
		b) Don't use one.
			::
	Some:
		1.
		2.	
		3.


===

"We will all most likely be posthumously analyzed somewhat more than we might think. Should this, in your opinion, be something you might wish to consider carefully at this point, sir?", Beatrice pointedly asked the young man in the Grey, Tweed Coat, at the point of her left index finger, the other busily wrapped around one of the seven shopping bags she had each allocated an unused finger to.

The fellow in the Grey Suit did have to pause for a moment at that one. The question hadn't been addressed once in his training, as a remote possibility. The Grey Men were not, as a rule, to be asked a question not written upon their sanctioned list of questions that could be asked of them. It was considered both impolite and also illegal.

The Old Grey Woman just paused in her doorway, as though wondering if he was done with is visit. Her eyebrow cocked 



---

Each morning that first week, the old wizard would stride over to his large mirror, located across his great and drafty bedroom, from the cot upon which he routinely got no sleep, and would stand before it, fuming.

"YOU!" He would loudly commence, thrusting a long and accusing figner at himself (who did likewise), his voice bouncing about the sparsely furnished chamber, "You are an evil, EVIL wizard! You are so, SO very evil, and I don't think I can stand for it anymore!" That last bit, he punctuized with a loud huff of his beard. His eyes pierced themselves, bothways and back.

His Cloudy Other Half took a short pause, then his eyes, led by his ample brows opened in slow realization of what he had just told himself. An "Oh, no, you did not" began to spread along his wrinkled visage, flaring indignation smoldering quick, and then, near alit - "I! I...? I am the Evil Wizard, in all of This? In all of This - that which YOU have wrought, I- " and he stretched this 'I' out, as no written 'I' may be properly stretched, "I am the Evil one? How, how, how DARE you, sir!" And then for solid measure spun round in place, to face away from himself once again. His bony arms crossed within a snarl of gaudy fabric, his robes grew itchier in response to this new agitation at himself. 

Reflecting briefly upon a better time when he would regularly agree with himself far more often than in recent years, the thought then occurred to him that he had suffered a Personality Split, the Evil Wizard's very worst nightmare. Aside from Centaur Paladins - they were murder. "Oh, no..." was all he could mutter to himself (his real self, the mirrored one still ignoring him back), before quickly striding off toward the spiral stair which occupied the South portion of the room. Four features poer floor, his motto since first acquiring this, his fourth tower (the tallest, naturally). He fairly flew down the steps, emerging at once from the vaulted ceiling of his library sanctum, lit from every angle by coloured light streaming through the windows, causing dust motes to dance and swirl behind him... his harshly sandled feet hit the cold floor and he crossed it at once, the the row of shelves dedicated to describing in detail every possible peril that might befall the Wizard who had Everything - this, his longest bookshelf, he had only last year doubled in size be magically shrinking its entire contents. Thousands of half-sized tomes filled with miniature script laying out warnings and warding spells. 

Where were the magical diseases? It had been a while... seven strides in, half the way up - there. The Split, Volume II. Where volume I had gone, he would never know, it had not shown up since his last move, from tower III (now occupied by a dragon and a horder of unruly undead). Volume I contained, he recalled, precise instructions on the curing of his condition, Volume II was mostly diagrams. It would have to do. He pulled it carefully from its place betwixt Perilous Persons and Python Summoning VII, carried it quickly to his Light Reading Desk (the Heavy one being left permanently near the foyer on the gorund level), and swung the thing open, sending the sparkling dust in every direction.

He turned the pages rapidly, looking for the image from which all other images were spun - the image of the Evil Wizard himself, split in two. There. His finger pressed down hard where the drawn wizard's heart was presumed to be - a detail considering mundane and of no importance. Lines disected the drawn wizard's form along various axes - the spiritual, the elemental, the crude physical center line, and the curved lines of Fate and Circumstance. His gnarled fingers spread to cover the whole of it, and he sucked in his breath. Surely all of him was thus divided - how had it come to be this way, without his knowing it?

A chair draw itself up behind him as he sat back, and into it. He gripped the arms and leaned backward, staring into middle space above the open book, and considered what this might mean. 
 

The Personality Split was when the Evil Wizard's commitment to being Truly Evil led himself or herself to one day accidentally see themselves in a mirror, at the exact moment they had become to add somebody new to their list of people they most hated. Evil wizards it is commonly known are notorious for anger flareups, and when they begin to surround themselves with reflective materials, of which they are often fond, it is only a matter of time before they slip up and decide they hate the person that has just walked through the door - believing it fully, that being a power of the Evil Wizard, and only then realizing it was themselves they saw walk through the very door they had just walked through. Invariably holding the thing that they themselves were, though it appeared in the wrong hand. 

To a Good Wizard, this moment would likely seem simply humourous, and in the event they were the sort of Good Wizard who bothered with those sorts of things, might decide to have a laugh - ha ha, I hated myself there for a moment - and then move on to whatever experiment they were currently absorbed in. But to an Evil Wizard, the raw feeling of hating oneself like only an Evil Wizard can feel they hate, would often cause the Personality Split. No spell was known to possess the power to break the Split - it was literally the Evil Wizard's penultimate struggle with the most powerful and worthy ally they could ever know: themselves. Evil Wizards are known for their large egos, they do not even try to hide it.

How to defeat oneself? Which self is the one to be defeated, for this Split must certainly be a trick, architected by the arcane powers who guard the Gates to Ultimate Power. At least, that is what the Evil Wizards from the Eastern Westfarian Isles call them. To the West, the Evil Wizards from Eastfar southwards call it them the Third and Fourth Eye Combined, but they are known for being melodramatic. To the South, Evil Wizards can only be found generally when vacationing, and the Northern ones - well, they struggle daily with greater demons, and have no time for mirrors.


====



