"To the Grand Overseers of the Governing Body in Control of the Processing of Student Applications to NorthFace Academy of MatheMAGICAL Learning,

I have included the course syllabus I will be taking at your academy next Autumn season. My application fees and personal documents are included. You will not be disappointed in this opportunity. I look forward to meeting you all.

Sincerely,
Bardlii Noonstar, Working Apprentice."


Mortenger Fallfeathers read his friend Bardlii's draft letter to Northface twice, glanced up at him breifly, then read it twice more. His substantial eyebrows fluttered with mild concern, but he said nothing, awaiting what the question would be. It was never the same one, twice in a row.

Bardlii eyed his drably clothed roommate candidate, wondering when he would get his draft letter back. The young man - Morleen FlutterFlop he believed the name was - had been holding it for an excessively long time now. He would need it back, he hadn't signed it yet, or bee-mailed it yet.

"Well, what do you think?", was all Bardlii offered.

Young Fallfeathers scratched his wildly uneven beard-scruff, not liking that question at all, as a rule. Not around Bardlii. He hadn't Inkled yet, but his time was has approaching, that much was plain. All Artificial Constructs eventually Inkled, it was just a fact of Life as all the Created came to know. Like figuring out the Wizards at Northface weren't the Wizards Bardlii thought they stll were. 

To Inkle, for a Construct, is to come to realize for the first time, what it means to be Constrcuted. That there was somebody who did the construction. This would seem to be an obvious thing to any adult Commonling, so accustomed as we are to surrounding ourselves with things of our own making, but it it strangely and often beautifully absent in the minds of young Constucts, who are most often simply happy to be there, animated as they are, in their strange and peculiar ways, to roam about in this, our stange and peculiar world.

To Inkle is to see your first Inkling, you see. Inklings are the weeiest of creatures, like bright little Faeries, really, and most Witches and even some Wizards will agree that they are probably pinpoints of Truth, intended to guide us about, but always with Love. 


