"There is no unity in this... 'community'", a frustrated Elizabeth drearily sighed, passing the weathered-old Hutchball to Teagan Seibold, the Team's new Left-Flank Strategist. By Order of the Rules According to Hutch, Seibold had to wear very fuzzy mittens the entire game (hers were made of aqua-coloured yarn), making the task of receiving the smooth, large-melon-sized, almost-round ball rather difficult. It slipped from her finger-flaps, and landed in the squelchy Autumn mud, as she cursed lightly under her foggy breath, stooping awkwardly to chase it.

Parsing Liz's words and their meaning carefully, Bluebbery Lee-Daniel cautiously returned, "I... I don't think that's possible. Is it?".

Both girls swung their gazes to their new Girl-in-the-Huddle, Margaret Morton (or whatever), who was still looking quite confused as to why she was there, at that particular moment, while other times she needed to be somewhere else. 

The rules of Hutchball had been somewhat hard for her to grasp. 

Maeve had just minutes before been informed this girl she had not actually met properly yet - who called herself Blueberry - that she, Maeve, was the Elected Secondary Captain at Mae Farrie's Middling High School and Working Homestead for Growing Minds's Junior Hutchball team.

MFMHS&WH4GM's team jersey sported a design unlike no other - "A brilliantly chaotic, hot mess of letters and hidden meaning", is what their own school paper cheerfully boasted most every Hutchball season, which was in the fall, which was now. Maeve's recruitment had involved a team jersey being pulled over her head - pinning her shoulders and arms at her sides - by the school's resident goth-archetype (said Blueberry), who, Maeve was later to find out, was the actual architect of the game's rules and continually growing popularity. It had been cleverly named after the school's athletic archetype, Charles Hutchinson, who the other kids called 'Hutch'. Hutch didn't much like having the game named after him, but he was still recovering from a long, tragically unresolved four-year crush on Rebecca Lee-Daniels (Blueberry), and still found it hard to say no to her ideas, despite having been - most gracefully in his opinion - seriously friend-zoned.

Hutchball was basically what happened when the school's gamer crowd, mostly young women with ideas, decided they wanted in on the whole football thing, but wanted to focus on strategy, and a hexagonally divided field. Hexagons had been the new grid since, like, forever. Before most of them were born, certainly.

Rebecca - now Blueberry to all her friends - was a bit of a math whiz. This included not only large-sum mathetical acrobatics, but statistical analyses as well as a fondness (more of a hobby, she admitted) for geometry. Watching school football during her grade 9 year had gven her two certainties:

1. Football was too dangerous a sport for people to play regularly, much less young people whose skeletons were still developing, and
2. She could design a better game that would be more inclusive.

That's all it took, really, aside from a bit of perseverance. The following year, she and half the garde 10 class made a bid to start a GridGame league. The name stunk, the campaign fizzled. The year after that, Blueberry asked Hutch to be a captain, and made a point to schedule all of their games at a local community centre at the same time the school's football team normally practiced. Hutch told the coach he was dropping out of football to follow his dream of being the first pro Hutchball player, and the coach (a closet Harry Potter fan), totally got it and let him go, wishing him the best, with more than a little envy.

Well. The school administration, not so much fans of games, or flights of fantasy in general, were not terribly amused to learn their start athelete would not be returning to the football team. They had worked hard to afford all of the equipment, which was expensive and required rooms to store it all in, and vehicles to move it all around. It took them entire fundraisers each year to afford the insurance. In other words, a lot of resources had been put into developing the team. Undoing work done was not the administration's favourite thing.

Also, what was Hutchball anyway? When it became apparent they had been out-maneuvered by Lee-Daniels (again), nearly half of them pushed to have the whole thing out with her family, once and for all, and the other slightly larger half voted to sell the school's football equipment and fund the hiring of another teacher's assistant for some of their more energetic young people in need of support in their own unique educational endeavours. Those were other stories altogether.

Majorty ruled at that point in the school's history, so the rest of that stuff was, as they say, history - the football team disbanded, most of the players followed Hutch and became protoype Hutchball players (to the secret relief of more than two-thirds of the players' parents), and after that, Blueberry's little brother Zenn didn't have to spend quite so much time in the Learning Corner (a lightly-fenced-in area at the back of the school) because there was now a new teacher, and she was fricking awesome, according to Zenn, who rarely minced words about teachers.



